hi guys what's up and welcome back to
the small Linux Channel I am so excited
about this video and that's because this
is something that I have wanted to
create for you guys for so long I can
think back to years ago when I started
small addicts and I envisioned myself
creating this exact video this is kind
of a cool moment for me and hopefully
will be really interesting and useful
and educational for you and you don't
even know what I'm talking about yet I
have officially begun a 12-week fitness
challenge for myself and I've decided
that I want to document the entire
process from before all the way through
the end everything in between the ups
and the downs what I'm eating what I'm
working out how much cardio I'm doing
like every little thing how I'm tracking
progress and we're today gonna kick it
off I'm gonna chat with you guys to tell
you what my goals for this challenge are
I'm going to tell you what my program
looks like the program design the
approach I'm taking and I'm also gonna
share with you how I'm tracking progress
and I'm gonna do my official before
check in with you guys this is a macho
worthy video ok so before we start I do
want to say this challenge is for myself
I'm not doing it for anyone while I am
filming it and recording it and I will
be blogging about it I want you guys to
know that first and foremost I'm doing
it for myself and to make myself happy
and not really for any other reason for
that reason if you do want to do this
along with me what you can do is you can
download my free workout plan that's in
my guide and get great results from that
while you watch these videos that's just
an option for you if you get inspired
and you're like I want to do a program I
do have a free 1 week program that you
can download I'll put in the description
below
okay so let's talk a little bit about
what I've been doing the last six to
twelve months basically the last bit of
time I'd say this last year I have been
really focused on you guys and my
business and growing small etics and
giving my clients everything I can and
I've been fortunate and lucky enough to
have made a lot of amazing changes in
the business this year that allowed me
to have more free time I've hired help
I have coaches in the program now
registered dietician that can help with
coaching and check-in so I'm now able to
focus on content more and especially get
back into you know my own lean fitness
and the things that I love to do the
reason why I started this channel in the
first place
because the last year was so business
and work focused for me I just focus on
maintaining and doing my workouts for my
mental health for my physical health and
just as a part of my daily routine and
so what that looks like was I was
working out four to five times per week
and I wasn't so concerned with making
gains or losing weight or anything like
that I basically just wanted to maintain
I felt really happy I stopped tracking
macros last summer and even over the
summer in spring I was very loose with
it but I completely threw MyFitnessPal
out the window and just decided to eat
kind of intuitively and I just hadn't
visited intuitive eating in a really
long time so it was really new for me I
mean I've been two years since I had
tracked so it was a really new thing for
me to just kind of eat what I like and
start listening to my hunger and I
learned a lot from that process and I
ate deserved like every night and I
didn't gain weight so when we get to my
before check-in you'll see that I
maintained about 120 400 anywhere
between a hundred and two hundred and
twenty-two pounds
didn't gain weight and I was eating
about 17 to 1,900 calories per day
and it was really fine I learned a lot
about my hunger and I ate when I was
hungry I didn't worry so much about
restricting in any way but I still kept
high protein my priority so he still had
about 30 grams of protein at every meal
I still had three to four meals per day
so I'm still above 100 grams of protein
per day which comes out to about a
pounds sorry one gram of protein per
pound of body weight and that's always
been what I stick to it when I'm trying
to maintain muscle or build muscle so
what's happened to me over this year is
I've just sort of gotten to this point
where I love Fitness it's my passion but
I haven't had time to be inspired by it
in my own journey in a long time I
forget what it feels like to really work
towards a goal to have that dedication
to be committed and it started to just
kind of seep into my life I started
waking up a little bit later I would
check my phone first thing in the
morning I just noticed my routines kind
of coming not as enjoyable I didn't feel
as inspired even in the content I create
for you guys I was less inspired because
I wasn't doing as much health stuff for
myself of course I was still doing a
really great baseline and I will always
work out and eat well but I just wasn't
inspired right I wasn't pursuing a goal
and I'm very goal-oriented so but when I
don't have goals it's just hard for me
to feel motivated or excited and I just
got to this point this is been like
creeping up on me like I've been having
this itch to do this since probably
September and now feels like the right
time and I know it's a weird time
because it's like December and you're
like girl what are you doing starting a
fitness challenge on Christmas I don't
know but it feels right so I'm just
gonna trust it I want to talk about my
goals I've very specific goals and
that's also really really good place for
you to start if you have a goal for
yourself make sure it's specific and
it's written down somewhere not a huge
secret another reason why I'm sharing
with you is because I know if I tell you
I'm going to get better results because
I'm gonna be holding myself accountable
through you guys okay so my first goal
for this challenge is to get a lot
stronger for the last year I've been
working
in my apartment gym downstairs and I do
pay a gym membership for it it's not a
lot but they have the basics you know
they have dumbbells and a smith machine
which I don't even use they have you
know couple benches they have a cable
machine which I've been very reliant on
this year but there's no Olympic sized
barbell now do you need that if you're
just starting out absolutely not you're
good with free weights but someone like
me who's been lifting for many years I
do lift barbells I left a lot heavier
than I did when I started so if I want
to progress I can't really go back to
dumbbells for my primary lifts that lift
benchpress overhead press chest press
squat I have to have a barbell so I've
been maintaining at lower much lower
weights for my my primary lifts that I
would like and using this mini barbell
it's like 25 pounds it's not the same
circumference as a regular Olympic sized
barbell and the the length of it is
shorter so in terms of like just physics
lifting it actually is mechanically
harder than an Olympic sized barbell
like last time I went and used Olympic
sized barbell was in Pittsburgh I
actually found this workout and put on
my Instagram and I lift my deadlift was
I think 155 for six to eight reps and
when I'm home and I load this mini
barbell with the same amount of weight I
can't I mean I can't lift it but it's
very uncomfortable I don't have a good
grip so needless to say I haven't had a
great workout situation but that was my
own choice and it was the easiest thing
to do and that kept me you know in my
groove and maintaining so it's fine but
I'm ready to upgrade and really start
getting stronger on my lips so my number
one goal with this challenge is to get a
heck of a lot stronger I want to I want
to get my benchpress my overhead press
much higher than it is my deadlift is
probably 155 my squats probably 135 I
basically stopped squatting for a while
and just did squat variations
I did a lot of front bar squatting which
is you can lift a lot less with the
front bar than you can with the back
squat or front squat for this back squat
so I would say it's 135 with a high bar
one of my goals is to switch to low bar
squatting and the reason why is because
the low bar squat which just means that
the barbell sits a little bit lower on
your back and it targets your posterior
chain which is your hamstrings and your
glutes more than your quads and because
I'm quad dominant I've been doing high
bar squat my whole life and I'm really
darn good at it I'm ready to be
challenged switch to my squat over to
one that I'm less familiar with actually
I'd like very little experience with and
master that and start to engage my
hamstrings more my school so that first
goal is I want to get stronger secondly
I want to get lean again I'm already
lean I'm about 17 percent body fat we'll
go over all my steps in the before
check-in I want to be challenged like I
said I want to have fun again I want to
get really into it and just feel like I
can you know access all of the clothes
my closet even like the tighter ones
that I haven't worn in a while and just
kind of feel good and you know just feel
better and my body so my goal is to get
down to 115 pounds however this is a
secondary goal if I reach 118 or 117 and
I feel great then I'm not gonna worry
about it
but I in the past when I have done
challenges like this for myself getting
215 is a really good sweet spot for me I
should know this about myself I feel so
strong so powerful lean healthy so we're
building muscle we're burning fat
switching to my low bar squat and
mentally I want to be challenged again I
also want to focus on this structure
like I said
I just haven't been inspired so this is
really about just becoming and you know
inspired again and falling in love with
this this fitness lifestyle again and
it's already had such positive effects
on my mindset I started yesterday and
it's I've already like rebalance my
morning routine I'm not looking at my
phone when I first wake up in the
morning I'm getting up earlier I'm
smashing my workout but we really have
you feeling really good you know fueling
for my workouts having really solid
post-workout meal so it's been really
good for me so far okay so let's talk
about how I'm gonna go about this I have
a program that has been designed by
price of wear day we I met Lizzie in
Tulum last January so almost a year ago
she's a fellow petite and really strong
and we met in Tulum at this outdoor
beach gym and we filmed some stuff for
each other and I was just inspired by
her work ethic and her physique and I
know and you guys know me I really
believe in seeking support for these
types of goals and transformations
that's why I have an entire program that
involves me and it's not just a PDF or
an accountability and someone working
with you is literally the most important
thing and any transformation whether
it's business transformation personal
development fitness and health nutrition
anytime you want to level up seeking out
a friend an expert someone like that is
going to double your results you're
gonna have much much better results
that's what I teach in my programs and
that's why I have coaches in my programs
and I coach in my programs as well so
practicing implementing what I teach I
have hired my own coach I am so excited
to work with Lizzie she's so far she's
been amazing and I knew she would and so
we have been working on program design
nutrition I will be tracking my macros
I'm going to be lifting five days a week
so not that much has changed there but
in terms of the program design is
changing a little bit
definitely focusing on the compound
lifts my squat deadlift bench press and
overhead press way more and getting the
form really tight and really perfect on
that and just going heavy 15 reps high
volume this is going to be lower volume
especially on my squad because my quads
tend to blow up with the squatting but
deadlift and all the the primary moves
compound lifts I'm going to be doing
probably 3 to 4 sets you know around 8
reps that's working on it's like pretty
much strength overall my workout so far
I've been shorter than when I'm used to
doing and we're just getting started so
I'm sure it will change so I'm going to
continue doing the cardio I've been
doing because when you start a program
the last thing you want to do is change
everything you actually want to only
change a few little things generally you
want to keep your calories the same as
they are well when you change a program
so you can see how your body is reacting
a lot of times people make the mistake
of starting a challenge and revamping
like their whole lifestyle like they
change everything that's how many of the
workout their nutrition their macros all
that you don't want to do that you want
to keep a food journal for a few days
figure out how many calories you're
eating then look to improve your diet
first before you change number of
calories so that's what we're doing this
week I'm keeping my macros at my
maintenance level during training days
and there's something else that I'm
doing this time around I have done this
in the past this is something that you
don't need to do if you're first getting
started but in the essence of being
transparent and showing you guys exactly
what I'm doing this I'm going to tell
you everything I'm doing so that you can
learn but again you don't need to do
this this is something I would teach
only really advanced clients because
it's just not necessary to see progress
but when you've been lifting for many
years you've been an athlete you've done
a lot used to start to want to
incorporate some more complex things to
keep challenging also for better results
so I am going to be doing carbs
this is something I have a lot of
experience doing in the past I have not
done it a lot this year but it's really
effective and essentially what carb
cycling is having your carbs around
times when you can utilize them the most
so before and after your workout you
might have more carbohydrates in the in
the form of high glycemic index food so
these are grains you know pastas quinoa
cereals and also fruit so I'm leaving
those very high carbs are very high
right now around my workouts before and
after and on general on training days
I'm eating more and then I'm carb
cycling by also on rest days having a
little bit less carbs overall in general
so carb cycling cycling is something I'm
definitely introducing I've always had a
lot of success for that in the past and
if you guys want me to make a whole
different video on carb cycling alone I
can that could be like its own video
cardio I'm keeping the same as before
and then we're gonna slowly taper it off
I do about 15 to 20 minutes of the list
so low intensity steady-state cardio on
the treadmill just incline walking four
to five times a week I do want to kind
of taper it down a bit focus on strength
and hone in on my nutrition for the fat
loss in terms of the composition of my
diet
I'm keeping it high-protein as I always
have and I'm going slightly higher carb
than I would say a lot more higher card
than I usually do and then I'm lowering
the fats a little bit and that's just
the approach at Lizzie and I are trying
first emeral I am continuing to follow
the smallest method and metabolism first
so the high protein of course building
muscle in the gym that's how you build
your metabolism naturally that's the
approach I'm going forward lifting
weights 100% minimizing cardio these are
the pillars of the small etics
method for petite women trying to tone
up lose fat and get really strong and so
I'm literally just taking that and kind
of pushing it to a more aggressive level
because I do have a lot of experience my
metabolism is already pretty fast and it
just needs an actual illness so that's
why we're introducing some
changes and still following the basics
of really focusing on my metabolic
health first okay
the fun part tracking progress so I'm
somewhat of a little Google sheet ninja
I actually I'm not like good at Google
sheets I just I just use them for this
stuff and I like making charts and
whatever it's fun so of course in my
organized fashion I am keeping a very
very very accurate or I should just say
like extensive document with my progress
because it's gonna be so cool to share
the data with you guys and I love data I
love seeing it I think it's fun it's
just cool to see your body reacting to
your lifestyle changes so here's what
I'm doing I'm tracking my macros every
day in my Fitness Pal to hit my goals
that's the first thing I'm doing have a
lot of experience with that so it's not
gonna be too much of a difference or a
challenge I'm tracking the weights that
I lift in the gym so that I know where
aren't my strength is that and I can
increase it as needed as we're
continuing to improve my my strength I'm
taking monthly measurements so once a
month with a little tape I'll take waist
I'll take bicep and hips so we'll do
that I also just bought a run fo scale I
think that's I say it I'm doing these
daily weigh-ins with friend foe so it's
going to take my I'll show you guys what
it looks like
it's so cool gonna take all my data it's
fairly accurate from day to day so
that's all that matters it's gonna take
my data and basically give me my daily
weight my daily body fat percentage my
you know skeletal muscle / muscle mass
so I can see these changes happening
week to week day to day so I'm also
doing a monthly progress photo progress
photos are my favorite form to measure
progress there's so much change that you
can only see from photos and really not
the scale and no other place photos can
show you a lot about how your body is
reacting to something and it's really
motivating because if you're consistent
for four weeks or even three weeks
you'll see a change in the photos
just want to keep going so photos are
always part of it and I have taken my
before photos on Sunday and it happened
now and then I'm also going to be
blogging weekly so in addition to
updating you guys on YouTube I'm going
to be blogging about it and launching a
small ethics blog I should say
relaunching cuz I have a blog but it's
really old and just don't go look at it
I mean revamping it and I'm gonna be
taking you guys through what I'm eating
I'll show you pictures of you know how
I'm breaking my macros up it's just
gonna be really fun and really cool
you'll get to see exactly kind of how a
coach or trainer is taking charge of
their program it should hopefully be
really useful for you guys okay so now
for my before check-in the fun part okay
so my weight as of week one was 122
point four pounds I have seventeen point
eight percent body fat which is still
actually in the athlete category in
terms of body fat percentage but I have
been down to sixteen fifteen and that's
also very comfortable for me I'm eating
my minutes level of about 1700 calories
to start and on my rest days I'll have
about 1450 or about 1500 and I am
working out five days a week like I said
and then we have my before photos
[Music]
and that's my check-in that's sort of my
current physique update I really cannot
wait to get started I mean I already got
started I'm already feeling really good
I'm sure you guys can smell I'm very
excited about this I'm energized and I
just want to know from you guys what do
you want to see while I take you through
this journey do you have any questions
like what is it you're most interested
about so I can really hone in on that
for you is it like the meals and the
nutrition is that the carb cycling is
that the programming at is it everything
do you want me to just take you with me
through it and a day let me know what
interests you most and yeah I can't wait
I'm so excited and thanks for watching
this you guys let me know below what you
think what you want to see most out of
this challenge and I will talk to you
guys really soon have an awesome day and
remember to subscribe for more content
tailored to petite women and give this
video a like if you liked it only if you
liked it and I will talk to you guys
really soon have a great day
[Music]